Light Offering Prayer
by Atiśa Dīpaṃkara

marmé nö ni tongsum gyi tongchenpo jikten kham kyi khoryuk dang nyampar gyur chik
May this vessel become as vast as the entire billionfold universe!
dongbu ni ri gyalpo rirab tsam du gyur chik
May its wick grow as large as Sumeru, the king of mountains!
markhu ni té gyatso tsam du gyur chik
May the oil within become as vast as the great ocean at the edge of the world!
drang ni sangye reré dündu dungchur reré jungwar gyur chik
And may a billion such lamps appear before each and every buddha!
ö kyi sipé tsemo menché né
Their light banishing the darkness of ignorance everywhere,
narmé pé nyalwa yenché kyi marikpé münpa tamché sal né chok chü sangye dang changchub sempé
shyingkham tamché ngönsum du tong shying salwar gyur chik
From the very peak of existence down to the lowest hell, may they reveal all the realms of buddhas
and bodhisattvas throughout the ten directions!
om vajra aloké ah hung
oṃ vajrāloke āḥ hūṃ
emaho ngotsar mejung nangsal drönmé di
Emaho! This wondrous and amazing light, burning brightly,
kalzang sangye tong tsa lasokpé
I offer to the thousand buddhas of this fortunate age,
rabjam chok chü shyingkham malüpé
Gurus, yidam deities, ḍākinīs and dharmapālas,
lama yidam khandro chökyong dang
And the deities of all the maṇḍalas,
kyilkhor lhatsok nam la bulwar gyi
In all the infinite realms of the ten directions.
pamé tso jé semchen tamché kyi
May all beings, with my own parents foremost among them,
tserab di dang kyené tamché du
In this and in all lives to come, whatever our place of birth,
dzoksang gyepé shyingkham ngön tong né
Always see directly the perfect buddhas’ realms,
öpakmé gön nyi dang yermé shok
And remain forever inseparable from Amitābha, ‘Lord of Boundless Light’—
könchok sum dang tsa sum lhatsok kyi
Grant your blessings so that, through the power of the truth
denpé tu yi mönlam di tab té
Of the Buddha, Dharma and Saṅgha, and the deities of the Three Roots,
nyurdu drubpar jingyi lab tu sol
This prayer of aspiration may swiftly be fulfilled!
teyatha | pentsadriya avabodhanaye soha
tadyathā pañcendriyāvabodhanīye svāhā

It is said that the precious Lord, glorious Atiśa, and seventeen of his disciples would chant
this in unison as they made offerings in the shrines of Ü and Tsang.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2010.